README.md, before:

# ARM mbed OS
 
mbed OS is an open-source embedded operating system designed specifically for the "things" in the Internet of Things (IoT). It includes all the features you need to develop a connected product based on an ARM Cortex-M microcontroller.
 
mbed OS accelerates the process of creating a connected product by providing a platform operating system that includes robust security foundations, standards based communication capabilities, built-in cloud management services, and drivers for sensors, I/O devices and connectivity. mbed OS is built as a modular, configurable software stack so that you can readily customize it to the device you're developing for, and reduce memory requirements by excluding unnecessary software components.
 
## Current release

The current release, along with a selection of previous versions are detailed here:
[Release Notes](https://docs.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os-release-notes/en/latest/)

## Getting Started for Developers
 
Please note that you will require [mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli) to build mbed OS. For more details, please read the getting started guide for developers using mbed OS in applications:
 
- [Getting Started](https://docs.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os-handbook/en/latest/)

## Getting Started for Contributors
 
We have a getting started guide for contributors working on mbed OS:
 
- Have a look in the docs directory

Commit message:

Edit Readme and add Travis Badges

README.md, after:

# ARM mbed OS
 
mbed OS is an open-source embedded operating system designed for the "things" in the Internet of Things (IoT). mbed OS includes the features you need to develop a connected product using an ARM Cortex-M microcontroller.
 
mbed OS provides a platform that includes:
 - Security foundations.
 - Cloud management services.
 - Drivers for sensors, I/O devices and connectivity.

mbed OS is modular, configurable software that you can customize it to your device and to reduce memory requirements by excluding unused software.

 
## Release Notes

The [Release Notes](https://docs.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os-release-notes/en/latest/) detail the current release and previous versions.

## Continuous Integration Status

We run continuous integration on all of our branches and pull requests to verify the stability of mbed OS. The following are the Travis CI indicators for mbed OS.

 - Master branch [![Master Branch CI Badge](https://travis-ci.org/ARMmbed/mbed-os.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ARMmbed/mbed-os)
 - Latest release [![Latest Tag CI Badge](https://travis-ci.org/ARMmbed/mbed-os.svg?branch=latest)](https://travis-ci.org/ARMmbed/mbed-os/branches)

## Getting Started for Developers
 
You need [mbed CLI](https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-cli) to build mbed OS. For more details, read the [mbed OS Handbook](https://docs.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os-handbook/en/latest/).

## Getting Started for Contributors
 
We have a [Contributing and Publishing Guide](https://docs.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os-handbook/en/latest/cont/contributing/) in the mbed OS Handbook.
